When we hear the word "robot," the image of a metal box with creepy eyes that speaks with a mechanical voice appears in our mind. I mean, that's what we've been watching on television for years, right? And to some extent we're right. Traditional robotics has been perceived by pop culture as an arena that creates human-like machines to work for us as saviors and sometimes as supervillains that bring a cascade of tyranny to the human world.
However, the robots of real life are not as similar to humans as we would like them to be. They are programmed in a specific way to execute only the tasks for which they have been programmed. Imagine an autonomous car that has been designed to take you by itself according to the instructions you give it. Now, for a traditional robot, the car will follow the exact path that was programmed to select for a destination determined by its creators, possibly without taking into account
traffic and causing accidents. However, a human driver would have chosen the shortest way or would have checked which roads have the least traffic today and which would be the most convenient for that particular destination. That is the exact human creativity that traditional robots lack! They are fixed in their own "not so intelligent" way and depend to a large extent on the program in which they are built and the instructions given to them. If a given instruction does not match their p
This is the limitation of the traditional robots that artificial intelligence is being developed to overcome. Unlike the conventional "bips and bops", a good AI will simulate the complex and intuitive ability to think and solve problems of the human mind. The concept of artificial intelligence is not as modern as we thought. It dates back to 1950, when Alan Turing invented the Tur test.
ing. Then, in the 1960s, the first chatbot program, ELIZA, was created. IBM Deep Blue, a chess computer created in 1977, defeated a world chess champion in two out of six games, one won by the champion and the other three ended in a draw. In 2011, Siri was announced as a digital assistant by Apple. Elon Musk and others founded OpenAI in 2015.
